README.md, before:

# BTDiablo

BTDiablo is a mod by [BTNeandertha1](https://www.twitch.tv/btneandertha1) for Diablo II Resurrected. As such, it is only to be used in Single Player.

BTNeandertha1 Social Media Links:  
- [Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/btneandertha1)
- [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/c/BTNeanderthal?sub_confirmation=1)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/BTNeandertha1)
- [Discord](https://discord.gg/BTNeandertha1)

# Table of Contents
1. [How to Install](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#how-to-install)
2. [Bug Reporting](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#bug-reporting)
3. [Credits](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#credits)
4. [Future Ideas](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#future-ideas)
5. [Corruption Ideas](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#corruption-ideas)
6. [WIP](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#wip)
7. [Changes](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#changes)
   - [Game](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#game)
   - [Characters](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#characters)
   - [Shrines](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#shrines)
   - [Runewords](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#runewords)
   - [Gems](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#gems)
   - [Shop](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#shop)
   - [Recipes](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#recipes)
   - [Endgame](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#endgame)
   - [Monsters](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#monsters)
   - [Elites](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#elites)
   - [Difficulties](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#)
      - [Hell](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#Hell)
      - [Insanity](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#Insanity)
   - [Area Changes](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#area-changes)
      - [Act 1](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#act-1)
      - [Act 2](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#act-2)
      - [Act 3](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#act-3)
      - [Act 4](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#act-4)
      - [Act 5](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#act-5)
   - [Skills](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#skills)

# How to Install
Please follow BTN's [YouTube guide](https://youtu.be/uyRgLlxcew8) to install the mod.  
**Please note** all files can be found here on GitHub now instead of on Google Drive.

# Bug Reporting
Please use the [Issues](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo/issues) section of GitHub or the [Discord Bug Reports](https://discord.gg/GUTuZHkzwz) channel!

# Credits 
- Inspiration from ALL modders and Diablo Mods over the years  
- [HighTechLowIQ](https://www.youtube.com/c/HighTechLowIQ) on YouTube for educational Videos and some Files  
- MRCelSynap: For Helping with Corruptions and various modding  
- Elmegaard: Inspiration  
- Canight: Helped with a ton of ideas
- Warren: Helping in the very beginning with Theory Crafting  
- Wolfieeiflow: Helping with Spreadsheets and brain power  
- JeyP: Testing things then walking me through  
- Kex: First Tester  

# Future Ideas
Please see the [Future Ideas](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo/issues/16) issue.  
Please submit your own ideas in the Future Ideas issue and they may be added later on!

- Add a "Challenge area"
- Make wanderer do something?
- Add more evil urns?
- Super Chest Rarity Nerf?
- Buff Necromancer some how?

# Corruption Ideas
Please see the [Corruption Ideas](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo/issues/14) issue.  
Please leave your own ideas for corruptions in the Corruption Ideas issue for future consideration!

# WIP
- Corruptions
- Crafting Buffs

# Patch Notes XII
- Buffed Runewords
- Buffed Diablo reaction time
- Added Durance of Hate Level 3 Auras to Council
- Added Cube Space
- Added QOL to Crafting and Upping
- Changed Difficulty Names
- How do I get the new patch?
   - Delete btdiablo.mpq folder
   - Paste New btdiablo.mpq folder

## Game 
- Item Levels Shown
- 3 Additional Shared Stash Tabs
- Negative 30 all res (Only effects the Player)
- Negative 199 MF
- Start with nothing
- Horadric Cube is now 8x8

## Characters
- Greatly improved stamina for all classes (~20% better than old Assassin Stamina)
- Greatly improved Attack Rating for all classes (All classes start with 750 AR was -15 to 20)

## Shrines
- Made Gem Shrines Much more common
   - Removed: Armor, Stamina, Portal, Fire, Exploding, Poison

## Runewords
- Enigma [Jah Ith Sol] (was Jah Ith Ber)
   - Added Flat Physical Damage Reduction
   - Removed Strength and % Damage Reduction
   - Half Magic Find% per level
- Spirit Shield [Mal Thul Ort Pul] (was Tal Thul Ort Amn)
   - Always Rolls 35% Faster Cast Rate
- Splendor [Eth Lum]
   - 20% Faster Cast Rate (was 10%)
- Added Soul Sword Runeword [Tal Thul Ort Amn] (was Spirit Sword, Spirit was changed)
   - Exact same as old Spirit Sword
- Holy Thunder [Eth Ral Ort Tal] works in any melee weapon (was Sceptors)
   - +100% Enhanced Damage (was 60) 
   - +15 Maximum Damage (was 10) 
   - Level 2 Holy Shock Aura when equipped (was +3 Holy Shock Paladin only)
   - Removed Chain Lighting Charges
- Honor [Amn El Ith Tir Sol]
   - Added +20-30 Increased Attack Speed
   - +190-210% Enhanced Damage (was 160) 
   - +20% Bonus Attack Rating (was 200 Flat Attack Rating)
   - Added 55% Faster Hit Recovery
   - Added Repairs Durability
   - Removed Replenish Life
- Malice [Ith El Eth]
   - Added 7% Life Stolen Per Hit
   - Added Repairs Durability
   - Removed Light Raidus
- Steel [Tir El] Melee Weapons (was sword, axe, mace)
   - Added 5% Chance of Crushing Blow on Hit
   - Changed Max and Min Damage to Flat Damage
   - Added Repairs Durability
- Strength [Amn Tir]
   - 90-110% Enhanced Damage (was 35)
   - Added Repairs Durability
- Prudence [Mal Tir]
   - 24 MDR (was 17)
   - 8 PDR (was 3)
   - Added Cannot Be Frozen
   - Removed 1 Light Radius
- Lionheart [Hel Lum Fal]
   - 90-110% Enhanced Damage (was 20)
- Radiance [Nef Sol Ith]
   - 10 pdr (was 3)
   - Added 33 Life
   - Removed Enhanced Defense
- Nadir [Nef Tir]
   - 4 Magic Damage Reduction
   - 4 Physical Damage Reduction
   - Removed -33% Gold Find
- Black [Thul Io Nef]
   - 7 MDR (was 2)
- Wealth [Lem Ko Tir]
   - Added 20 Faster Run/Walk
   - Added 10% Increased Attack Speed
   - 1 Magic Find% per Level (was 100)
- Delirium [Lem Ist Io]
   - Removed the Delirium Mod from Delirium (turned you into a doll "disabling your character")
- Zephyr [Ort Eth]
   - 50% Increased Attack Speed (was 25%)
   - Added 33% Pierce
   - 100% Enhanced Damage (was 33%)
   - 14% Chance to Cast level 2 Twister on striking (was 7% level 1 and when struck)
   - Added 30 Mana
- Edge [Tir Tal Amn]
   - Added 33% Pierce
   - 280-320% Enhanced Damage (was Demon and Undead Damage)
- Harmony [Tir Ith Sol Ko]
   - 275-325% Enhanced Damage (was 200-275)
- Wrath [Pul Lum Ber Mal]
   - Added 30% Increased Attack Speed
   - 300-375 Enhanced Damage (was Damage to Demons and Undead)
- Brand [Jah Lo Mal Gul]
   - Added 30% Increased Attack Speed
   - Removed Prevent Monster Heal
   
## Runes
- Ist and higher Runes now all have 3% Experience Gained
- Cham Rune
   - Changed Armor and Helmet to 34% Reduced Curse Duration (was Cannot Be Frozen)
- Zod
   - Added +1 to All Skills

## Gems
- Topaz Magic Find replaced with Faster Run/Walk

## Items
- Annihilus
   - 10-15% Experience Gained (was 5-10%)
- Necro shields adds 33% Pierce for the Teeth mechanic (was Poison Damage)
- Added Hellfire Ashes (Broken down Hellfire Torches) Torch + Larzuk's Forging Hammer 

## Shop
- Added Charsi's Malus to Imbue (575k)
- Added Larzuk's Forging Hammer (2.2 Mil)
- Added Essences for Gold at Akara (150k B, 325k Y, 750k R, 1.5 Mil R)
- Added Elixir(7k) ingredient at Alkor
- Added Quill(2.76M) ingredient at Alkor
- Added Jawbone(2.76M) ingredient at Alkor
- Added Spleen(2.76M) ingredient at Alkor
- MF Potion grants +100% MF for 1 Hour (Effect lost on death or S&E)
- Added BigDinn at Ormus (90k)
   - Cube with Magic Staff for (?/33) Teleport Charges [Randome Level Required]
- Added Hratli's Spiritual Herb (2.25M)
   - Ingredient for Repair Mod
- Added Viper Of The Amulet at Drognan(160k)
   - Cube with Wand and potion for (?/67) Lower Resistance or Life Tap Wand [Randome Level Required]
      - Mana Potion = Lower Resistance
	  - Healing Potion = Life Tap

## Recipes
- Rune Downgrading 1 to 1 (Flawed Gem + Rune = Downgrade)
- Removed Level Requirement increase upon Upping and item.
- Any base Crafting including Eth Items
   - Crafted Items can now be Upped
- Essence Transmuting 3 = 1 of next Tier
   - Blue > Yellow > Red > Green
- 3 Green Essence = 1 Destruction Key
- Uber Key Transmuting 3 = 1 of next tier | changed the Colors of the keys
   - T > H > D > T
- 4 Unique Jewerly (Rings, Amulets, Jewels) = SOH
- 3 Perfect Skulls + Rare Item = Low Quality Rare Reroll (was 6 Pskulls)
- 1 Rare Item + Unique Ring = High Quality Rare Reroll (was SOJ)
- Removed Gem requirements for Rune Upgrading
- Elixir + Health Potion + Mana Potion = Rejuvination Potion
- Elixir + Spleen + Jawbone + Quill = Magic Find Potion
- Hratli's Spiritual Herb + Magic Find Potion + Hellfire Ashes + SOH
   - Repairs Durability (works on Magics, Rares, Crafted and Uniques)
   - Replenishes Quantity for Any Throwing Weapons

## Endgame
- OP Repeatable recipes:
   - Zod + SOJ + Sur + SOH + Charsi's Malus + ANY Body Armor = +1 to Teleport, + 25MF + 25GF + 1 Light Radius
   - Cham + SOH + Ist + Lem + Charsi's Malus + ANY gear piece = +25% MF + 25%GF + 1 Light Radius

## Monsters
- Mephisto can fly now
- Diablo reacts 33% faster

## Elites
- 2x Aura Range
- Removed: Holy Fire, Holy Shock, Blessed Aim
- Added Vigor, Concentration, Higher chance for Fanatacism
- Multishot much more common
- Aura Enchanted more common in Insanity
- Teleportation Mod Half as common in Insanity
- Hell and Insanity:
   - Removed Mana Burn and Spectral Hit
   - Super Uniques are almost Always Aura Enchanted Especially in Insanity in addition to regular mods
   - Lord De Seis always Extra fast in addition to regular mods
   - Ismail Vilehand is now Always Aura Enchanted (Travincal)
   - Bremm Sparkfist is now always Cursed (Durance of Hate Level 3)

## Difficulties

### Normal
- 10% Experience loss on death

### Hell (was Nightmare)  
- -45% Resistance (was -40)
- 5% more density
- 10% more Elites
- 25% Experience loss on death

### Insanity (was Hell)
- -110% Resistance (was -100)
- 25% more Density and Elites
- 50% Experience loss on death
- Monsters React 15% Faster

## Area Changes
(Level changes are for Insanity Only)

### Act 1
- 85 Cave Level (Both Levels)
- 85 Hole Level (Both Levels)
- 85 Tristram
- 81 Tower 1	
- 82 Tower 2
- 83 Tower 3
- 84 Tower 4
- 85 Tower 5
- 83 Cow Level and increased density an additional 10% (was 81)

### Act 2 
- 85 Sewers (All Levels)
- 85 Halls of the Dead (All Levels)
- 85 Maggot Lair (All Levels)
- 85 Claw Viper Temple (Both Levels)
- 85 Tombs

### Act 3
- 85 Great Marsh
- 85 Flayer Dungeon (All Levels)
- 85 Spider Cavern
- Lower Kurast is DANGEROUS in Hell and Insanity... Like really...
- Durance of Hate Level 3 
   - Added Aura to Maffer Dragonhand
   - Added Aura to Wyand Voidbringer

### Act 4
- 84 Outer Steps 
- 85 Plains of Despair
- 85 City of the Damned
- Chaos Seal Bosses Same TC as Baal Waves

### Act 5
- 85 All Zones
- 87 Uber Areas (Forgotten Sands, Furnace of Pain and Matron’s Den) Also greatly increased Elite packs and density
- 87 Uber Tristram 
   - Balanced Resistances of Swarms and Pit Lords
- Baal Waves:
   - W1 = Extra Fast Dolls
   - W2 = Extra Fast Deathlords
   - W3 = Teleporation Souls
   - W4 = Extra Fast Venom Lords
   - W5 = Extra Fast Minions of Destruction

## Skills
- Static is Always 60%
- Teeth can Pierce and removed Next Hit Delay

!!!CORRUPTIONS AREN'T IN YET!!!

Commit message:

UI Improvements
UI improvements and nerfed Ancients

README.md, after:

# BTDiablo

BTDiablo is a mod by [BTNeandertha1](https://www.twitch.tv/btneandertha1) for Diablo II Resurrected. As such, it is only to be used in Single Player.

BTNeandertha1 Social Media Links:  
- [Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/btneandertha1)
- [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/c/BTNeanderthal?sub_confirmation=1)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/BTNeandertha1)
- [Discord](https://discord.gg/BTNeandertha1)

# Table of Contents
1. [How to Install](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#how-to-install)
2. [Bug Reporting](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#bug-reporting)
3. [Credits](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#credits)
4. [Future Ideas](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#future-ideas)
5. [Corruption Ideas](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#corruption-ideas)
6. [WIP](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#wip)
7. [Changes](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#changes)
   - [Game](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#game)
   - [Characters](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#characters)
   - [Shrines](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#shrines)
   - [Runewords](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#runewords)
   - [Gems](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#gems)
   - [Shop](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#shop)
   - [Recipes](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#recipes)
   - [Endgame](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#endgame)
   - [Monsters](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#monsters)
   - [Elites](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#elites)
   - [Difficulties](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#)
      - [Hell](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#Hell)
      - [Insanity](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#Insanity)
   - [Area Changes](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#area-changes)
      - [Act 1](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#act-1)
      - [Act 2](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#act-2)
      - [Act 3](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#act-3)
      - [Act 4](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#act-4)
      - [Act 5](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#act-5)
   - [Skills](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo#skills)

# How to Install
Please follow BTN's [YouTube guide](https://youtu.be/uyRgLlxcew8) to install the mod.  
**Please note** all files can be found here on GitHub now instead of on Google Drive.

# Bug Reporting
Please use the [Issues](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo/issues) section of GitHub or the [Discord Bug Reports](https://discord.gg/GUTuZHkzwz) channel!

# Credits 
- Inspiration from ALL modders and Diablo Mods over the years  
- [HighTechLowIQ](https://www.youtube.com/c/HighTechLowIQ) on YouTube for educational Videos and some Files  
- MRCelSynap: For Helping with Corruptions and various modding  
- Elmegaard: Inspiration  
- Canight: Helped with a ton of ideas
- Warren: Helping in the very beginning with Theory Crafting  
- Wolfieeiflow: Helping with Spreadsheets and brain power  
- JeyP: Testing things then walking me through  
- Kex: First Tester  

# Future Ideas
Please see the [Future Ideas](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo/issues/16) issue.  
Please submit your own ideas in the Future Ideas issue and they may be added later on!

- Add a "Challenge area"
- Make wanderer do something?
- Add more evil urns?
- Super Chest Rarity Nerf?
- Buff Necromancer some how?

# Corruption Ideas
Please see the [Corruption Ideas](https://github.com/BTNeandertha1/BTDiablo/issues/14) issue.  
Please leave your own ideas for corruptions in the Corruption Ideas issue for future consideration!

# WIP
- Corruptions
- Crafting Buffs

# Patch Notes XIII
**WARNING** Take stuff out of cube before patch!!!
- Cube is now 6x6 (reduced cube size from 8x8 to prevent corrupt files)
- Changed Difficulty Names (Pain(N), Agony(NM), Insanity(H))
- Removed Extra Fast from Ancients
- How do I get the new patch?
   - Delete btdiablo.mpq folder
   - Paste New btdiablo.mpq folder

## Game 
- Item Levels Shown
- 3 Additional Shared Stash Tabs
- Negative 30 all res (Only effects the Player)
- Negative 199 MF
- Start with nothing
- Horadric Cube is now 8x8

## Characters
- Greatly improved stamina for all classes (~20% better than old Assassin Stamina)
- Greatly improved Attack Rating for all classes (All classes start with 750 AR was -15 to 20)

## Shrines
- Made Gem Shrines Much more common
   - Removed: Armor, Stamina, Portal, Fire, Exploding, Poison

## Runewords
- Enigma [Jah Ith Sol] (was Jah Ith Ber)
   - Added Flat Physical Damage Reduction
   - Removed Strength and % Damage Reduction
   - Half Magic Find% per level
- Spirit Shield [Mal Thul Ort Pul] (was Tal Thul Ort Amn)
   - Always Rolls 35% Faster Cast Rate
- Splendor [Eth Lum]
   - 20% Faster Cast Rate (was 10%)
- Added Soul Sword Runeword [Tal Thul Ort Amn] (was Spirit Sword, Spirit was changed)
   - Exact same as old Spirit Sword
- Holy Thunder [Eth Ral Ort Tal] works in any melee weapon (was Sceptors)
   - +100% Enhanced Damage (was 60) 
   - +15 Maximum Damage (was 10) 
   - Level 2 Holy Shock Aura when equipped (was +3 Holy Shock Paladin only)
   - Removed Chain Lighting Charges
- Honor [Amn El Ith Tir Sol]
   - Added +20-30 Increased Attack Speed
   - +190-210% Enhanced Damage (was 160) 
   - +20% Bonus Attack Rating (was 200 Flat Attack Rating)
   - Added 55% Faster Hit Recovery
   - Added Repairs Durability
   - Removed Replenish Life
- Malice [Ith El Eth]
   - Added 7% Life Stolen Per Hit
   - Added Repairs Durability
   - Removed Light Raidus
- Steel [Tir El] Melee Weapons (was sword, axe, mace)
   - Added 5% Chance of Crushing Blow on Hit
   - Changed Max and Min Damage to Flat Damage
   - Added Repairs Durability
- Strength [Amn Tir]
   - 90-110% Enhanced Damage (was 35)
   - Added Repairs Durability
- Prudence [Mal Tir]
   - 24 MDR (was 17)
   - 8 PDR (was 3)
   - Added Cannot Be Frozen
   - Removed 1 Light Radius
- Lionheart [Hel Lum Fal]
   - 90-110% Enhanced Damage (was 20)
- Radiance [Nef Sol Ith]
   - 10 pdr (was 3)
   - Added 33 Life
   - Removed Enhanced Defense
- Nadir [Nef Tir]
   - 4 Magic Damage Reduction
   - 4 Physical Damage Reduction
   - Removed -33% Gold Find
- Black [Thul Io Nef]
   - 7 MDR (was 2)
- Wealth [Lem Ko Tir]
   - Added 20 Faster Run/Walk
   - Added 10% Increased Attack Speed
   - 1 Magic Find% per Level (was 100)
- Delirium [Lem Ist Io]
   - Removed the Delirium Mod from Delirium (turned you into a doll "disabling your character")
- Zephyr [Ort Eth]
   - 50% Increased Attack Speed (was 25%)
   - Added 33% Pierce
   - 100% Enhanced Damage (was 33%)
   - 14% Chance to Cast level 2 Twister on striking (was 7% level 1 and when struck)
   - Added 30 Mana
- Edge [Tir Tal Amn]
   - Added 33% Pierce
   - 280-320% Enhanced Damage (was Demon and Undead Damage)
- Harmony [Tir Ith Sol Ko]
   - 275-325% Enhanced Damage (was 200-275)
- Wrath [Pul Lum Ber Mal]
   - Added 30% Increased Attack Speed
   - 300-375 Enhanced Damage (was Damage to Demons and Undead)
- Brand [Jah Lo Mal Gul]
   - Added 30% Increased Attack Speed
   - Removed Prevent Monster Heal
   
## Runes
- Ist and higher Runes now all have 3% Experience Gained
- Cham Rune
   - Changed Armor and Helmet to 34% Reduced Curse Duration (was Cannot Be Frozen)
- Zod
   - Added +1 to All Skills

## Gems
- Topaz Magic Find replaced with Faster Run/Walk

## Items
- Annihilus
   - 10-15% Experience Gained (was 5-10%)
- Necro shields adds 33% Pierce for the Teeth mechanic (was Poison Damage)
- Added Hellfire Ashes (Broken down Hellfire Torches) Torch + Larzuk's Forging Hammer 

## Shop
- Added Charsi's Malus to Imbue (575k)
- Added Larzuk's Forging Hammer (2.2 Mil)
- Added Essences for Gold at Akara (150k B, 325k Y, 750k R, 1.5 Mil R)
- Added Elixir(7k) ingredient at Alkor
- Added Quill(2.76M) ingredient at Alkor
- Added Jawbone(2.76M) ingredient at Alkor
- Added Spleen(2.76M) ingredient at Alkor
- MF Potion grants +100% MF for 1 Hour (Effect lost on death or S&E)
- Added BigDinn at Ormus (90k)
   - Cube with Magic Staff for (?/33) Teleport Charges [Randome Level Required]
- Added Hratli's Spiritual Herb (2.25M)
   - Ingredient for Repair Mod
- Added Viper Of The Amulet at Drognan(160k)
   - Cube with Wand and potion for (?/67) Lower Resistance or Life Tap Wand [Randome Level Required]
      - Mana Potion = Lower Resistance
	  - Healing Potion = Life Tap

## Recipes
- Rune Downgrading 1 to 1 (Flawed Gem + Rune = Downgrade)
- Removed Level Requirement increase upon Upping and item.
- Any base Crafting including Eth Items
   - Crafted Items can now be Upped
- Essence Transmuting 3 = 1 of next Tier
   - Blue > Yellow > Red > Green
- 3 Green Essence = 1 Destruction Key
- Uber Key Transmuting 3 = 1 of next tier | changed the Colors of the keys
   - T > H > D > T
- 4 Unique Jewerly (Rings, Amulets, Jewels) = SOH
- 3 Perfect Skulls + Rare Item = Low Quality Rare Reroll (was 6 Pskulls)
- 1 Rare Item + Unique Ring = High Quality Rare Reroll (was SOJ)
- Removed Gem requirements for Rune Upgrading
- Elixir + Health Potion + Mana Potion = Rejuvination Potion
- Elixir + Spleen + Jawbone + Quill = Magic Find Potion
- Hratli's Spiritual Herb + Magic Find Potion + Hellfire Ashes + SOH
   - Repairs Durability (works on Magics, Rares, Crafted and Uniques)
   - Replenishes Quantity for Any Throwing Weapons

## Endgame
- OP Repeatable recipes:
   - Zod + SOJ + Sur + SOH + Charsi's Malus + ANY Body Armor = +1 to Teleport, + 25MF + 25GF + 1 Light Radius
   - Cham + SOH + Ist + Lem + Charsi's Malus + ANY gear piece = +25% MF + 25%GF + 1 Light Radius

## Monsters
- Mephisto can fly now
- Diablo reacts 33% faster

## Elites
- 2x Aura Range
- Removed: Holy Fire, Holy Shock, Blessed Aim
- Added Vigor, Concentration, Higher chance for Fanatacism
- Multishot much more common
- Aura Enchanted more common in Insanity
- Teleportation Mod Half as common in Insanity
- Hell and Insanity:
   - Removed Mana Burn and Spectral Hit
   - Super Uniques are almost Always Aura Enchanted Especially in Insanity in addition to regular mods
   - Lord De Seis always Extra fast in addition to regular mods
   - Ismail Vilehand is now Always Aura Enchanted (Travincal)
   - Bremm Sparkfist is now always Cursed (Durance of Hate Level 3)

## Difficulties

### Normal
- 10% Experience loss on death

### Hell (was Nightmare)  
- -45% Resistance (was -40)
- 5% more density
- 10% more Elites
- 25% Experience loss on death

### Insanity (was Hell)
- -110% Resistance (was -100)
- 25% more Density and Elites
- 50% Experience loss on death
- Monsters React 15% Faster

## Area Changes
(Level changes are for Insanity Only)

### Act 1
- 85 Cave Level (Both Levels)
- 85 Hole Level (Both Levels)
- 85 Tristram
- 81 Tower 1	
- 82 Tower 2
- 83 Tower 3
- 84 Tower 4
- 85 Tower 5
- 83 Cow Level and increased density an additional 10% (was 81)

### Act 2 
- 85 Sewers (All Levels)
- 85 Halls of the Dead (All Levels)
- 85 Maggot Lair (All Levels)
- 85 Claw Viper Temple (Both Levels)
- 85 Tombs

### Act 3
- 85 Great Marsh
- 85 Flayer Dungeon (All Levels)
- 85 Spider Cavern
- Lower Kurast is DANGEROUS in Hell and Insanity... Like really...
- Durance of Hate Level 3 
   - Added Aura to Maffer Dragonhand
   - Added Aura to Wyand Voidbringer

### Act 4
- 84 Outer Steps 
- 85 Plains of Despair
- 85 City of the Damned
- Chaos Seal Bosses Same TC as Baal Waves

### Act 5
- 85 All Zones
- Madawc is always Aura Enchanted
- 87 Uber Areas (Forgotten Sands, Furnace of Pain and Matron’s Den) Also greatly increased Elite packs and density
- 87 Uber Tristram 
   - Balanced Resistances of Swarms and Pit Lords
- Baal Waves:
   - W1 = Extra Fast Dolls
   - W2 = Extra Fast Deathlords
   - W3 = Teleporation Souls
   - W4 = Extra Fast Venom Lords
   - W5 = Extra Fast Minions of Destruction

## Skills
- Static is Always 60%
- Teeth can Pierce and removed Next Hit Delay

!!!CORRUPTIONS AREN'T IN YET!!!
